# AMP Packager

> **WARNING**: This code is still evolving, and is a developer preview. The
> specification is still changing, and this is an implementation of a snapshot
> of it. Feel free to use it, but treat with care how you configure and deploy it.

AMP Packager is a tool to [improve AMP
URLs](https://www.ampproject.org/latest/blog/developer-preview-of-better-amp-urls-in-google-search).
By running it in a proper configuration, web publishers may (eventually) have
origin URLs appear in AMP search results.

The AMP Packager works by creating [Signed HTTP
Exchanges (SXGs)](https://wicg.github.io/webpackage/draft-yasskin-httpbis-origin-signed-exchanges-impl.html)
containing AMP documents, signed with a certificate associated with the origin,
with a maximum lifetime of 7 days. In the future, the [Google AMP
Cache](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/fundamentals/how_cached) will fetch,
cache, and serve them, similar to what it does for normal AMP HTML documents.
When a user loads such an SXG, Chrome validates the signature and then displays
the certificate's domain in the URL bar instead of `google.com`, and treats the
web page as though it were on that domain.

The packager is an HTTP server that sits behind a frontend server; it fetches
and signs AMP documents as requested by the AMP Cache.

## Packager/Signer

### How to use

In all the instructions below, replace `amppackageexample.com` with a domain you
own and can obtain certificates for.

#### Development server

##### Manual installation

  1. Install Go version 1.10 or higher. Optionally, set
     [$GOPATH](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/GOPATH) to something (default
     is `~/go`) and/or add `$GOPATH/bin` to `$PATH`.
  2. `go get -u github.com/ampproject/amppackager/cmd/amppkg`

     Optionally, move the built `~/go/bin/amppkg` wherever you like.
  3. Create a file `amppkg.toml`. A minimal config looks like this:
     ```
     LocalOnly = true
     CertFile = 'path/to/fullchain.pem'
     KeyFile = 'path/to/privkey.pem'
     OCSPCache = '/tmp/amppkg-ocsp'

     [[URLSet]]
       [URLSet.Sign]
         Domain = "amppackageexample.com"
     ```
     More details can be found in [amppkg.example.toml](amppkg.example.toml).
  4. `amppkg -development`

     If `amppkg.toml` is not in the current working directory, pass
     `-config=/path/to/amppkg.toml`.

##### Docker

Follow the instructions [here](docker/README.md) on how to deploy a local Docker
container.

#### Test your config

  1. Run Chrome with the following commandline flags:
     ```
     --user-data-dir=/tmp/udd
     --ignore-certificate-errors-spki-list=$(openssl x509 -pubkey -noout -in path/to/fullchain.pem | openssl pkey -pubin -outform der | openssl dgst -sha256 -binary | base64)
     --enable-features=SignedHTTPExchange
     'data:text/html,<a href="https://localhost:8080/priv/doc/https://amppackageexample.com/">click me'
     ```
  2. Open DevTools. Check 'Preserve log'.
  3. Click the `click me` link.
  4. Watch the URL transmogrify! Verify it came from an SXG by switching
     DevTools to the Network tab and looking in the `Size` column for `(from
     signed-exchange)` and in the `Type` column for `signed-exchange`. Click on
     that row and then click on the Preview tab, to see if there are any errors.

#### Demonstrate privacy-preserving prefetch

This step is optional; just to show how [privacy-preserving
prefetch](https://wicg.github.io/webpackage/draft-yasskin-webpackage-use-cases.html#private-prefetch)
works with SXGs.

  1. `go get -u github.com/ampproject/amppackager/cmd/amppkg_dl_sxg`.
  2. `amppkg_dl_sxg https://localhost:8080/priv/doc/https://amppackageexample.com/`
  3. Stop `amppkg` with Ctrl-C.
  4. `go get -u github.com/ampproject/amppackager/cmd/amppkg_test_cache`.
  5. `amppkg_test_cache`
  6. Open Chrome and DevTools, as above.
  7. Visit `https://localhost:8000/`. Observe the prefetch of `/test.sxg`.
  8. Click the link. Observe that the cached SXG is used.

#### Productionizing

For now, productionizing is a bit manual. The minimum steps are:

  1. Don't pass `-development` flag to `amppkg`. This causes it to serve HTTP
     rather than HTTPS, among other changes.
  2. Don't expose `amppkg` to the outside world; keep it on your internal
     network.
  3. Configure your TLS-serving frontend server to conditionally proxy to
     `amppkg`:
     1. If the URL starts with `/amppkg/`, forward the request unmodified.
     2. If the URL points to an AMP page and the `AMP-Cache-Transform` request
        header is present, rewrite the URL by prepending `/priv/doc` and forward
        the request.
     3. If at all possible, don't send URLs of non-AMP pages to `amppkg`; its
        [transforms](transformer/) may break non-AMP HTML.
     4. DO NOT forward `/priv/doc` requests; these URLs are meant to be
        generated by the frontend server only.
  4. For HTTP compliance, ensure the `Vary` header set to `AMP-Cache-Transform,
     Accept` for all URLs that point to an AMP page, irrespective of whether the
     response is HTML or SXG. (SXG responses that come from `amppkg` will have
     the appropriate `Vary` header set, so it may only be necessary to
     explicitly set the `Vary` header for HTML responses.)
  5. Get an SXG cert from your CA. It must use an EC key with the prime256v1
     algorithm, and it must have a [CanSignHttpExchanges
     extension](https://wicg.github.io/webpackage/draft-yasskin-httpbis-origin-signed-exchanges-impl.html#cross-origin-cert-req).
     One provider of SXG certs is [DigiCert](https://www.digicert.com/account/ietf/http-signed-exchange.php).
     You MUST use this in `amppkg.toml`, and MUST NOT use it in your frontend.

You may also want to:

  1. Launch `amppkg` as a restricted user.
  2. Save its stdout to a rotated log somewhere.
  3. Use the [provided tools](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/fundamentals/validate)
     to verify that your published AMP documents are valid, for instance just
     before publication, or with a regular audit of a sample of documents. The
     [transforms](transformer/) are designed to work on valid AMP pages, and
     may break invalid AMP in small ways.

Once you've done the above, you should be able to test by launching Chrome
without any comamndline flags; just make sure
chrome://flags/#enable-signed-http-exchange is enabled. To test by visiting the
packager URL directly, first add a Chrome extension to send an
`AMP-Cache-Transform: any` request header. Otherwise, follow the above
"Demonstrate privacy-preserving prefetch" instructions.

#### Redundancy

If you need to load balance across multiple instances of `amppkg`, you'll want
your `OCSPCache` to be backed by a shared storage device (e.g. NFS). It doesn't
need to be shared among all instances globally, but perhaps among all instances
per datacenter. The reason for this is to reduce the number of OCSP requests
`amppkg` needs to make, per [OCSP stapling
recommendations](https://gist.github.com/sleevi/5efe9ef98961ecfb4da8).

#### How will these web packages be discovered by Google?

For now, the presence of the `Vary: AMP-Cache-Transform` response header on an
AMP HTML page will allow the Google AMP Cache to make a second request with
`AMP-Cache-Transform: google` for the SXG.

The Google Search developer preview only runs on Chrome M71+ (as of 2018-11-12,
Beta or Dev).

In the future, Googlebot may make all requests with `AMP-Cache-Transform: google`,
eliminating the double fetch.

### Limitations

Currently, the packager will refuse to sign any AMP documents larger than 4 MB.
Patches that allow for streamed signing are welcome.

The packager refuses to sign any URL that results in a redirect. This is by
design, as neither the original URL nor the final URL makes sense as the signed
URL.

To account for possible clock skew in user agents, the packager back-dates
packages by 24h, which means they effectively last only 6 days for most users.

This tool only packages AMP documents. To sign non-AMP documents, look at the
commandline tools on which this was based, at
https://github.com/WICG/webpackage/tree/master/go/signedexchange.

## Local Transformer

The local transformer is a library within the AMP Packager that transforms AMP
HTML for security and performance improvements. Ports of or alternatives to the
AMP Packager will need to include these transforms.

More info [here](transformer/README.md).
